---
title: Updated COVID-19 Protection Plan
---


Due to the brutal progression of the COVID-19 pandemic and following the directives issued by the Swiss and Cantonal authorities, we ask all our members sailing on the Club's boats to respect the updated protection plan:

#### CERN Yachting Club protection plan for continuing sailing activities

1. The rules of the host states, and of Swiss Sailing prevail if they are stricter (in that order or precedence). The latest document of the Swiss Federal Office of Sport from 28th October 2020 can be found at this address: [https://www.baspo.admin.ch/content/baspo-internet/fr/aktuell/covid-19-sport.detail.news.html/baspo-internet/2020/Was-im-Sport-noch-moeglich-ist.html](https://www.baspo.admin.ch/content/baspo-internet/fr/aktuell/covid-19-sport.detail.news.html/baspo-internet/2020/Was-im-Sport-noch-moeglich-ist.html). It details, i.a., that for outdoor sports a mask must be worn or the minimum distance of 1.5m must be kept at all times.
2. Skippers shall also study the press release of the Geneva state council from 29th October 2020 available here:[https://www.ge.ch/document/point-presse-du-conseil-etat-du-29-octobre-2020](https://www.ge.ch/document/point-presse-du-conseil-etat-du-29-octobre-2020) and keep up-to-date with the evolution of these rules.

Following a stricter application of these rules the following constraints must be followed by club members:

{:start="3"}

3. The skipper and crew also accept the risk of infection associated with using shared boats and use the YCC
            boats at the own *risque et périls*
4. The groups of people sailing together should mix as little as possible; it is highly preferred to have
            always the same crews sail together, also for private outings
5. The skipper collects the contact details of all participants and makes them available to the YCC Corona Plan
            Responsible, Luigi Gallerani, on request; these data will have to be kept for 14 days after the outing
6. Except for on the boat, 1.5 m distance must be kept between all participants (this applies to the travel,
            briefings, rigging, etc.)
7. On the boat, distance between participants must be as much as possible
8. Washing hands or using disinfectant before going on the boat and after leaving the boat.
9. Persons that have covid-symptoms such as cough and fever cannot participate in any activity
10. Even more than in non-pandemic times, members taking out our boats are responsible for repairs and maintenance. They should undertake any repairs and maintenance within the period of their booking. If they cannot do so for any reason, they need to explain why not in the log and if the problem is serious, take the initiative to contact the maintenance team by phone immediately.
11. Assume the boat is contaminated when you use it and act accordingly (including but not limited to, clothes, gloves, etc.)
12. The use of any infrastructure in the CNV building shall be reduced to a minimum
13. Bring your own life vest as much as possible
14. The maximum wind limit is reduced from 5 to 4 Bf (6 Bf to 5 Bf for Surprises and J/xx)
15. For the buvettes and the Moby Dick shop, the rules as for any restaurant / shop apply
16. Avoid anything which puts anyone else, e.g., sauvetage teams or other boats assisting you, unnecessarily at risk
18. Use common sense
